If You Want To Propose a Newsgroup

S.T.U.M.P. Robomoderator Program
================================

![](images/active/stump.jpg)

\`\`Making Moderation Easy\'\'

\

If You Want To Propose a Moderated Newsgroup
============================================

If you plan to propose a new group (both alt and Big 8) and consider
using STUMP robomoderator or ReadySTUMP site hosting, please read this.

Note
----

If you plan on using [ReadySTUMP hosting service](hosting) and want to
propose a newsgroup (both in alt.\* and Big Eight), contact me
(<ichudov@algebra.com>) before submitting a proposal. This can save you
from submitting erroneous proposals and making easily fixable mistakes.
The purpose of this is not to influence your moderation policy, but to
make sure that ReadySTUMP-related technical aspects are spelled out
properly. Your policy is your business.

If you plan on using [my moderation bot STUMP](index.html) and host it
by yourselves on your own Unix machine, please review sample charters
below and feel free to join the stump-users mailing list. To subscribe,
send email to majordomo\@algebra.com, saying \"subscribe\" in the body
of the message

      From: your@email.address
      To: majordomo@algebra.com
      Subject: whatever

      subscribe stump-users

This is a list to help STUMP users maintain their moderation bots and
cope with problems.

Useful Links
------------

-   [Moderated Newsgroups FAQ by Denis
    McKeon](http://www.swcp.com/~dmckeon/mod-faq.html). A little
    outdated, but generally a good guide for people new to internet
    moderation.
-   [So You Want to Create an alt Newsgroup, by Dave
    Barr.](http://www.cis.ohio-state.edu/~barr/alt-creation-guide.html)
-   [Sample Newsgroup Proposal for an alt.\* newsgroup \-- Cut and
    Paste](proposal.txt)

Charters
--------

First of all, every moderated newsgroup needs a Charter. A Charter is
like a constitution of a newsgroup. It spells out rules such as which
articles are accepted and which are unacceptable, how moderators are
replaced, and so on. All people in the newsgroup should abide by the
charter. Charters do not have to be anything too fancy. Charters for alt
newsgroups are generally simplier than charters for groups that go
through a voting process. Feel free to use these examples of newsgroup
charters to write your own.

-   [Sample charter of alt.astrology.moderated (ReadySTUMP
    user)](http://stump.algebra.com/~aam/Charter.txt). Useful as a
    sample of an alt.\* newsgroup charter.
-   [Sample charter of misc.invest.financial-plan (ReadySTUMP
    user)](http://stump.algebra.com/~mifp/Charter.txt). Useful as a
    sample of a Big Eight newsgroup charter.

Technical Aspects of Creating alt.\* Newsgroups
-----------------------------------------------

**If you want to use my ReadySTUMP hosting service for a moderated
alt.\* newsgroup:** Generally, new moderators, regardless of which
moderation service they want to use, have to to the following:

-   Contact David Lawrence from isc.org, requesting to create a
    forwarding address for their newsgroups.
-   Issue a specially formatted newgroup control message, by injecting
    it into a USENET newsserver. Typically this is done manually and
    requires knowledge of NNTP protocol. This is [not]{.underline}
    rocket science, however it is a technical task and requires good
    understanding of how USENET works. Instructions on how to do it are
    available in alt.config. See [this instruction
    manual](http://www.gweep.bc.ca/~edmonds/usenet/good-newgroup.html)
    to see if you want to do it by yourself.

To save moderators from a hassle of doing these tasks by themselves, **I
can create the newsgroup and request forwarding at no charge**. It is
included in the ReadySTUMP service.

Criticism of Your Proposal
--------------------------

When you propose an alt newsgroup, you have to post the proposal to
alt.config for \"review\" by interested people. Expect to see criticism
and suggestions. Remember that all criticism is only good for you, as it
can help you avoid some major mistakes or misnaming your newsgroup.
Ultimately, no amount of criticism can prevent you from creating any
alt.\* newsgroup you wish. Being friendly generally tends to attract
good advice.

When you propose a Big Eight newsgroup (a soc.\* or a sci.\* or a
rec.\*, etc) newsgroup, remember that your proposal will have to pass
through a lengthy discussion and voting process. You have to expect that
a few people will make quite caustic comments about your proposal.
Depending on your personality, this may or may not be pleasant, but it
is to be expected. Consider this process a test of your determination to
be a moderator. After all, moderators must be patient people to be
effective, and the RFD/CFV process is one of the best tests of patience.

Rmgroups
--------

Rmgroup is a technical term, an abbreviation of \"remove group\". In the
original USENET design, RMGROUPS were used to delete badly configured
newsgroups. Due to widespread abuse and lack of built in authentication,
Rmgroup messages are no longer effective and are widely ignored by all
but most misconfigured news sites.

In the `alt.*` hierarchy, anyone can issue a rmgroup message, just as
anyone can create a newsgroup.

There are a few self-approinted guardians of propriety, who watch all
newsgroup messages and rmgroup those newly created newsgroups that they
do not like. But, just as masturbation has not made anyone pregnant,
rmgroup messages do not really have an effect on all newsgroups. If you
see a rmgroup message that deletes your newsgroup, simply ignore it.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

[![Creative Commons
License](https://i.creativecommons.org/l/by/4.0/88x31.png)](http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/)\
Copyright Â© 1996 Igor Chudov. This work is licensed under a [Creative
Commons Attribution 4.0 International
License](http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/).
