.TH PMCANON 1 "PGP Moose"
.\"@(#)pmcanon.1	1.3 (PGPMoose) 95/10/21
.SH NAME
pmcanon \- put a news article in canonical format
for signature checking
.SH SYNOPSIS
.BI pmcanon [file] 
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Pmcanon
accepts an article from the named
.I file
(or standard input if not specified), selects
certain of the header fields,
and performs certain transformations intended to
defeat unintentional mangling by news transport
programs. The resulting article is written to
standard output, and is suitable to have a PGP
signature generated or checked for it.
.LP
The output produced consists (in order) of a sorted list,
one per line, of newsgroups; the From:, Subject:,
and Message-ID: lines, and the body of the
article (everything after the first empty line).
Other header lines are discarded.
.LP
The body is further processed by deleting all
blank lines, deleting trailing whitespace on
lines, prefixing lines beginning with "--",
"From", "Subject", and a single "." with "-\ ",
">", ">" and ".", respectively. These
modifications are safe, in that an article which
has already had such modifications will fail to
meet the criterion to have them happen again.
Thus what was used as input when a signature was
generated should still be the same when checked
for validity, even if some of these changes have
happened along the delivery path.
.\".SH FILES
.SH SEE ALSO
.IR pmapp (1),
.IR pmcheck (1),
PGP manual.
.SH AUTHOR
Greg Rose, RoSecure Software.
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright 1995 Greg Rose, RoSecure Software
.LP
The authors hereby grant permission to use, copy,
modify, distribute, and license this software and
its documentation for any purpose, provided that
existing copyright notices are retained in all
copies and that this notice is included verbatim
in any distributions.  No written agreement,
license, or royalty fee is required for any of
the authorized uses.  Modifications to this
software may be copyrighted by their authors and
need not follow the licensing terms described
here, provided that the new terms are clearly
indicated on the first page of each file where
they apply.
.LP
IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHORS OR DISTRIBUTORS BE
LIABLE TO ANY PARTY FOR DIRECT, INDIRECT,
SPECIAL, INCIDENTAL, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES
ARISING OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, ITS
DOCUMENTATION, OR ANY DERIVATIVES THEREOF, EVEN
IF THE AUTHORS HAVE BEEN ADVISED OF THE
POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.
.LP
THE AUTHORS AND DISTRIBUTORS SPECIFICALLY
DISCLAIM ANY WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT
LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF
MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR
PURPOSE, AND NON-INFRINGEMENT.  THIS SOFTWARE IS
PROVIDED ON AN "AS IS" BASIS, AND THE AUTHORS AND
DISTRIBUTORS HAVE NO OBLIGATION TO PROVIDE
MAINTENANCE, SUPPORT, UPDATES, ENHANCEMENTS, OR
MODIFICATIONS.
