.TH PMNEWSGROUPS 1 "PGP Moose"
.\"@(#)pmnewsgroups.1	1.3 (PGPMoose) 95/10/21
.SH NAME
pmnewsgroups \- extract a list of all newsgroups
from an article's headers.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.BI pmnewsgroups [file] 
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Pmnewsgroups
accepts an article from the named
.I file
(or standard input if not specified), selects
the header field, Newsgroups:,
and writes to standard output a sorted list of
the newsgroups present, one per line.
.\".SH FILES
.SH SEE ALSO
.IR pmapp (1),
.IR pmcheck (1),
.IR pmcanon (1),
.SH AUTHOR
Greg Rose, RoSecure Software.
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright 1995 Greg Rose, RoSecure Software
.LP
The authors hereby grant permission to use, copy,
modify, distribute, and license this software and
its documentation for any purpose, provided that
existing copyright notices are retained in all
copies and that this notice is included verbatim
in any distributions.  No written agreement,
license, or royalty fee is required for any of
the authorized uses.  Modifications to this
software may be copyrighted by their authors and
need not follow the licensing terms described
here, provided that the new terms are clearly
indicated on the first page of each file where
they apply.
.LP
IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHORS OR DISTRIBUTORS BE
LIABLE TO ANY PARTY FOR DIRECT, INDIRECT,
SPECIAL, INCIDENTAL, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES
ARISING OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, ITS
DOCUMENTATION, OR ANY DERIVATIVES THEREOF, EVEN
IF THE AUTHORS HAVE BEEN ADVISED OF THE
POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.
.LP
THE AUTHORS AND DISTRIBUTORS SPECIFICALLY
DISCLAIM ANY WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT
LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF
MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR
PURPOSE, AND NON-INFRINGEMENT.  THIS SOFTWARE IS
PROVIDED ON AN "AS IS" BASIS, AND THE AUTHORS AND
DISTRIBUTORS HAVE NO OBLIGATION TO PROVIDE
MAINTENANCE, SUPPORT, UPDATES, ENHANCEMENTS, OR
MODIFICATIONS.
